# sqlalchemy-challenge

In this challenge, I test some of the functions that I learned during this Advanced-SQL week. 

# Instructions

## Part 1: Analyze and Explore the Climate Data
In this section, you’ll use Python and SQLAlchemy to do a basic climate analysis and data exploration of your climate database. Specifically, you’ll use SQLAlchemy ORM queries, Pandas, and Matplotlib. To do so, complete the following steps:

Note that you’ll use the provided files (climate_starter.ipynb and hawaii.sqlite) to complete your climate analysis and data exploration.

Use the SQLAlchemy create_engine() function to connect to your SQLite database.

Use the SQLAlchemy automap_base() function to reflect your tables into classes, and then save references to the classes named station and measurement.

Link Python to the database by creating a SQLAlchemy session.

Perform a precipitation analysis and then a station analysis by completing the steps in the following two subsections.

## Precipitation Analysis
Find the most recent date in the dataset.

Using that date, get the previous 12 months of precipitation data by querying the previous 12 months of data.

Load the query results into a Pandas DataFrame. Explicitly set the column names.

Sort the DataFrame values by "date".

Use Pandas to print the summary statistics for the precipitation data.

Station Analysis
Design a query to calculate the total number of stations in the dataset.

Design a query to find the most-active stations (that is, the stations that have the most rows). To do so, complete the following steps:

List the stations and observation counts in descending order.

Use Pandas to print the summary statistics for the precipitation data.

## Station Analysis
Design a query to calculate the total number of stations in the dataset.

Design a query to find the most-active stations (that is, the stations that have the most rows). To do so, complete the following steps:

List the stations and observation counts in descending order.

Design a query that calculates the lowest, highest, and average temperatures that filters on the most-active station id found in the previous query.

Design a query to get the previous 12 months of temperature observation (TOBS) data. To do so, complete the following steps:

  -Filter by the station that has the greatest number of observations.

  -Query the previous 12 months of TOBS data for that station.

Close your session.


# Required libraries or coding language.
SQL
Jupyter Lab
python


# Results
I completed the "climate_starter.ipynb" file, created and finished the "app.py" file meeting all the requirements described above.

# References
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator.

# Resources
To perform this task I used the activities that we did during the past week as a reference. I also got help from my classmates in the study groups.
